This is an excerpt from a letter from Samuel Rutherford, a Scottish Presbyterian, to an unknown woman. It is so sweet that I have to post a long quote.

I don't know what this woman had been through, but what comfort in the loveliness and beauty of Christ for afflicted souls!

> _O consider His loveliness and beauty, and that there is nothing which can commend and make far heaven, or earth, or the creature, that is not in Him in infinite perfection; for fair sun and fair moon are black, and think shame to shine before His fairness (Isaiah 24:23, Job 25:5). Base heavens, and excellent Jesus! weak angels, and strong and mighty Jesus! foolish angel-wisdom, and only wise Jesus! short-living creature, and long-living and ever-living Ancient of Days! Miserable, and sickly and wretched are those things that are within times’ circle, and only, only blessed Jesus! If ye can wind-in into His love (and He giveth you leave to love Him, and allurements also), what a second heaven’s paradise, a young heaven’s glory, is it to be hot and burned with fevers of love-sickness for Him! And the more your Ladyship drink of this live, there is the more room, and the greater delight and desire for this love. Be homely, and hunter for a feast and fill of His love; for that is the borders and march of heaven. Nothing hath a nearer resemblance to the color, and hue, and lustre of heaven that Christ loved, and to breathe out love-words and love-sighs for Him. Remember what He is. When twenty thousand millions of heaven’s lovers have worn their hearts threadbare of love, all is noting, yea, less than nothing, to His matchless worth and excellency. Oh so broad and so deep as the sea of His desirable loveliness is! Glorified spirits, triumphing angels, the crowned and exalted lovers of heaven, stand without His loveliness (Psalm 16:2), and cannot put a circle on it. Oh if sin and time were from betwixt us and that royal King’s love! that high Majesty (eternity’s bloom and Flower of high lustred beauty) might shine upon pieces of created spirits, and might bedew and overflow us, who are portions of endless misery and lumps of redeemed sin._

> _Alas! what do I? I but spill and lose words in speaking highly of Him who will bide and be above all the music and songs of heaven, and never be enough praised by us all; to whose boundless and bottomless love I recommend your Ladyship, and am, Your Ladyship’s, in Christ Jesus,_
<br></br>
> S.R. (Samuel Rutherford)
