The title of this book consists of three words, all of which I love. I love Christians, I love Reading, and I love Classics. 

Nadya Williams walks us through the Greco-Roman classic works, and demonstrates how reading and meditating on them provides many benefits to the modern Christian. These benefits are three in number: 1. to surprise us with joy as we see the Scriptures subversively fulfilling the longing of the heart; 2. to understand the world and mind of the earliest Christians, who were well-versed in these texts; and 3. to form our character, which was the supreme goal of the Greco-Roman writers.

You might wonder why she emphasizes this era as opposed to others. While there is nothing new under the sun, we can recognize the unique gifts of each period of history. Every era has its strengths and weaknesses. Perhaps the weakness of this was the easily observable inconsistency of its leaders and worship, as Augustine often notes in _City of God_. Williams picks up on this several times. But its strength was its keen insight, the development and standardization of politics, economy, history, science, music, philosophy and other disciplines. We are indeed indebted to the Greco-Roman age and the writers that it produced.

And if you read this book, you'll be indebted to Williams! Her walkthrough and categorization of the writers and their works is immensely helpful. Thanks to the timeline after the table of contents, I now know that Homer came before Herodotus, Augustine after Aurelius. 

Two moving moments related to this book are worth retelling. The first comes directly from chapter 16, _Suetonius, Plutarch and the Emperor's New Groove_: "We can learn a lot about a culture's values from seeing who its heroes are. In the ancient world before Christianity, these heroes were always famous politicians and generals - an overlapping category, for to be one was always to be the other. Only after the rise of Christianity do we see different sorts of heroes arise: the meek, the lowly, and the ones willing to die for their faith" (p 218). Tom Holland makes exactly the same point in his recent book _Dominion: How The Christian Revolution Remade the World_. Accordingly, just before this quotation the author laments the role models held up by the likes of authors like Suetonius and Plutarch. They wrote biographies of the leading men, all of whom were sadly corrupted by the power of leadership. As Christians, we can rejoice that the last have become first; that, as Holland convincingly argues, Christ subversively redefined virtue in His own passion by demonstrating that the true greatness is not merely a warlike aggression, but rather in laying down His life for His friends.

The second is from Calvin's _Institutes of the Christian Religion_, which I have betaken myself to read this year. On Book I.8.1, Calvin compares the power of Scripture to the Greco-Roman classics as a whole: "Read Demosthenes or Cicero; read Plato, Aristotle and others of that tribe. They will, I admit, allure you, delight you, move you, enrapture you in wonderful measure. But betake yourself from them to this sacred reading [of the Bible]. Then, in spite of yourself, so deeply will it affect you, so penetrate your heart, so fix itself in your very marrow, that, compared with its deep impression, such vigor as the orators and philosophers have will nearly vanish." Calvin admits that the orators are worth reading, apparently above almost all others. But there is no comparison with with the Scriptures, the living and active Word of God. As Calvin was, like the earliest Christians, steeped in the classics, he could use them to magnify the living God. And that's exactly what this book will teach you to do.