Most things in life are more complicated than we make them. We know this to be true, but it is hard to keep this in mind when tragedy strikes. “We are naturally prone to keep slipping into not knowing what we know (160).” So, what does the Christian do when disaster shows up, when the ominous, long-drawn out affliction presents itself? When it seems that you have been forsaken by God, and your heart wants to complete the thought and decide that you indeed have been? Thanks be to God, this is exactly why the book of Job was written. Far from being a trite manual on how to deal with suffering in the abstract, Ash contends that Job is a template for the believer who undergoes unmerited suffering, that is, suffering that is not a direct punishment for sin. By seeing Job’s trials in this light, Ash helps us to interpret the book properly with an eye towards Christ’s sufferings. “The relatively innocent sufferings of Job foreshadow the utterly innocent sufferings of Jesus Christ (178).” 
<br />
<br />

Right at the outset, Ash takes great care to prove that Job is a blameless and upright man, as the Scriptures indicate several times in the first chapter of the account. “Job is thus presented to us … as a genuine believer”, to put it simply (32). This is of great importance for the argument that Job’s sufferings are undeserved, and of great comfort for the Christian, for we are blameless and upright in the same way Job was, by faith in Christ (33). And as Christ’s sufferings were redemptive and accomplished salvation, so the sufferings of Christian believers are redemptive and serve to further God’s glory.
<br />

It is important to establish this basis, for very soon into the book Job’s comforters (you could call them detractors) come onto the scene. For the author, these friends personify the theological-philosophical systems of the world. Great care is taken to outline their theology, which is more or less this: moral retribution always comes immediately as a response for evil. Ash ably exegetes and dismantles their sharp accusations, while giving Job room to cry out of the anguish of his soul. Take one example from Eliphaz’s first speech, and Job’s reply: “Eliphaz has said that ‘vexation’ is the kind of angry speech that marks a man out as a fool and therefore condemns him to death (5:2) … Job replies that his troubled, hot outburst, far from showing him to be a fool, is a natural and understandable response to the depth and weight of his misery. His speech reveals his misery, not his folly (120).” 
<br />

This defense, both of Job’s standing with God and his extreme lament, is necessary for us. For Ash is all too familiar with the way the prosperity gospel (“if you do good or have enough faith, God will bless you”) has infiltrated our churches. We could soon end up either in Job’s position, or lest we take care, that of his comforters. His proper distillation of their arguments will prevent us from either becoming like them or succumbing to them.
<br />

The book soars to its highest when at its most Christ-centric. In chapter 9, Job strains at the desire for a mediator, which is a very New Testament idea: “For He is not a man, as I am, that I might answer Him, that we might come to trial together. There is no arbiter between us, who might lay His hand on us both (9:32,33).” Ash capitalizes on this: “It is a ‘mediator between God and men’ (1 Timothy 2:5) that Job so badly needs. Once Job has raised this question of a mediator, ‘it cannot simply be left. It is here a forlorn wish, and after the next passages he slips back into near despair. But each time the impossible hope becomes stronger’ as he comes back to this hope in 16:21 and 19:23-27. Job’s yearning for reconciliation with God shines brightly in this hope (147).”
<br />

Job is not a book about how to have more faith when trials come, but rather how to suffer well as a believer in God. Ash shows us how to do this by walking us through Job’s grief, while pointing us to Christ as the ultimate redemptive sufferer - His sufferings earned our blameless and upright status, as they did for Job.