
This book was a tonic to the soul of one who feels an occasional reluctant urge to buck against the fast-paced tyranny of his inner efficiency expert. I would back every effort to make this required reading in every big city. 

The author, Zena Hitz, leans into the autobiographical as she begins her work. She describes her sad descent from a young eager reader, born into a studious family, into an academic with a hollow chest. Her journey parallels C.S. Lewis's concerns in [The Inner Ring](https://www.lewissociety.org/innerring/). Over time, academia inflicted on her the subtle shift from learning for joy to the personality and achievement culture endemic to higher education.

By taking her leave of the Academy and joining a convent, Hitz was able to, with the Lord's help, recover the sense of wonder and dignity that is available to all humans. This dignity comes from enjoying the life of the mind for its own sake. As Christians, we believe that we were made to learn, behold and wonder. Primarily, and eventually only, we will behold the face of God; this is David's hope and the final promise of Scripture (Psalm 17:15, Revelation 22:4). Until then, we can enjoy intellectual pursuits, of which the pursuit of God is the highest, and which bleeds into all other honest pursuits in this life. Hitz discovered that it is this pursuit, embarked on for its own sake, free (or freed) from the compulsion to profit (monetarily, politically or otherwise) that restores this human dignity.

This need for dignity is universal, so it's no surprise that men and women across time have discovered the joyous pursuit of intellectual life. Oftentimes hidden at first, they emerged from a cloister, prison or wilderness inside of which their minds and hearts burned. Augustine is its pioneer in his _Confessions_, and throughout Western history others have latched onto the importance of solitude and intellectual stimulation. I have to wonder whether the biblical characters of Moses, Paul and even the Lord Jesus had similar experiences in their own lives. The hard work of forming, or being formed, happens in isolation and leads to a beautiful public flourishing.

I have learned to handle my own soul with greater care after reading and reflecting on Hitz's words. When the parenting years came upon us, my wife and I pivoted too hard to a savior-complex model of care for the kids. I voluntarily gave up scheduled time for reading, prayer and reflection, reasoning that I could get my intellectual and exercise time in bits and spurts. Unfortunately, I gave up even those times to serve the family. I should have realized that I _need_ this time, whether it comes in nice quiet blocks or adhoc moments.

This book has also eased my burden of needing to quantify my reading and make use of it. I am happy to continue this blog for the sake of enjoying my thoughts!