"The Son of Man came eating and drinking" (Chester 12). “In Luke’s Gospel Jesus is either going to a meal, at a meal, or coming from a meal” (13). “In Luke’s Gospel Jesus got Himself killed because of the way He ate” (30). Meals are an underexplored dimension of the life and ministry of Jesus. In Sharing a Meal with Jesus, Tim Chester provides a fascinating look at these meals, and encourages the reader to imitate Jesus's communal meal model to bring outsiders into the Kingdom of God. As Chester unpacks this theology of food, it becomes clear that what he is aiming for is a complete upheaval of the Christian attitude towards food and eating.
<br />

Meals naturally erect social and cultural boundaries — we generally eat with those who are like us and who like us. This leaves the lonely marginalized, those without friendship and without meals, on the fringes of society. Just as Jesus proactively brought outsiders into His meals, we are to do the same. “The hospitality of God embodied in the table fellowship of Jesus is a celebration and sign of His grace and generosity. And we’re to imitate that generosity” (49).
<br />

Chester argues that we have made both too much and too little of food in modern society. We can see that we've made too little of food in the commercialization of hospitality in the hotel cozy coffee shop industry, where we can feel ‘at home’ for as little or as long as we want — of course, without the work required to prepare such a meal or have guests. The culture of professionalism that exalts idolatrous worship of work invents new ways for us to bypass traditional meals. Imagine the young professional graduate who drinks rather than eats his meals for efficiency’s sake. “Meals slow things down. Some of us don’t like that. We like to get things done" (p 47). On the other hand, we make too much of food when we live to eat. Chester explains that gluttony is at bottom a disbelief in God’s promised provision of necessary nourishment. It is telling that both of these extremes can easily be undertaken in isolation from others.
<br />

In contrast to the bleak picture of food the world paints for us, Chester shows us the better way by describing what meals around a Christian table are supposed to look like. We are not to exclusively invite those to our table whom we know will invite us back, lest we imitate the very same people Jesus chides in Luke 14:12–14. Rather, we are to look out for those who are “untouchable”. Such an effort is an expression of our orthodox understanding of justification by faith alone. When we invite others who cannot "pay us back", we are demonstrating the grace of God, which brings us into His family without any merit on our part. And not only are our meals to be used to bring the stranger in; they are to be used to edify the saints at our churches. We eat as Christians in light of the marriage feast that is coming for all of God’s children, that day when the church, made up of re-embodied souls, will take our fill of food with our Groom in the new heavens and the new earth. The Lord’s Supper is a picture of this until the appointed time.